\section*{Discussion}
\subsection*{The knowledge-base and status of commercially exploited marine stocks}
The RAM Legacy Database provides detailed time series and point data
from available stock assessments for the world's industrial marine
fisheries, thus providing a basis for evaluating the existing
knowledge-base and current status of these fisheries. Accessible stock
assessments are predominantly from developed nations in
north-temperate regions, and tend to cover only the past few decades,
typically a significantly shorter period than that for which the stock
has been exploited. The taxonomic makeup of available assessments is a
very limited subset of the accepted taxonomic coverage of marine
species worldwide, and of globally exploited species. Most notably
(with the exception of tunas), assessments are not
available for coral reef and other tropical fishes. Inshore (e.g.
estuarine species) and anadramous populations are also noteworthy in
their absence (as a result of our focus on federally or
internationally managed marine species) and, as such, any assessment
of global status of exploited populations must be interpreted only for
that subset of exploited species for which assessments are present in
the database.
% [need to briefly discuss the ‘Stock Status’ results]

In its latest State of the World Fisheries and Aquaculture
\citep{FAO:sofia}, the FAO reports that 20\% of stocks are
underexploited, 52\% are fully exploited, 19\% are overexploited, 8\%
are depleted and 1\% are recovering. The ambiguous
classification of stocks as ``underexploited'', ``fully exploited''
and ``overexploited'' makes comparisons of our results with those from
the FAO difficult. Our estimates are that almost 60\% of stocks are
below the biomass reference point that maximises their yield. Almost
half of stocks that are below $B_{msy}$ still experience exploitation
rates that are above those that would maximise yield. Our results also
provide evidence that appropriate fisheries management measures can
curtail over-exploitation and that stocks can recover.  For depleted
stocks, recovery requires strongly articulated legislation,
potentially difficult short- to medium-term regulations to decrease
fishing mortality, protection of habitat through area closures and
recovery targets with well-defined timelines. For stocks that exist in
areas beyond national jurisdiction, nation members of various Regional
Fisheries Management Organisations must treat international
regulations as binding agreements that must be fulfilled.



% JULIA: Suggest to add a short paragraph here that briefly overviews our Results i.e. status of stocks. We could compare them to the global catch results (e.g. % of stocks that FAO says are overfished) since we make a big point in the introduction of the unreliability of catch data,  and discuss reasons for the potential differences.


\subsection*{Biases in the knowledge-base for commercially exploited marine stocks}

\subsubsection*{Geographic bias}
Bias in the geographic scope of the RAM Legacy database (relative to
that of all fisheries globally) may arise for several reasons, all of
which vary geographically in their prevalence: 1. an assessment is not
conducted on a stock; 2. it is not possible to access the assessment;
or 3. the non-exhaustive collation we undertook overlooked the
assessment. Whether an assessment is conducted for a given stock
depends upon a multitude of factors, including the economic value of
the stock, the availability of fiscal resources to collect the data
required for an assessment (which frequently includes conducting
fisheries-independent research surveys) and the expertise to conduct
assessments. In general, conducting stock assessments is a costly
endeavour that is restricted to wealthy fishing nations. The legal
context where fisheries are prosecuted can also strongly influence the
requirement for conducting stock assessments. In the United States,
the Magnuson-Stevens Act defines which stocks are to be monitored and
managed, hence a large number of the assessments in the RAM Legacy
database are under the jurisdiction of the US National Marine
Fisheries Services. How accessible assessments are for entry depends
upon the transparency and access policies of the relevant management
agencies, which also varies geographically. Our search for
assessments could also give rise to geographic biases, as concerted
collation efforts have only been conducted in those known
assessment-rich regions.  It is hoped that readers of this article can
assist in correcting these biases by participating in future updates
of the RAM Legacy database, and that the development of this database
will encourage greater transparency amongst fishing nations.


\subsubsection*{Taxonomic bias}
Related to geographic bias is the taxonomic bias in those species that
are known, caught and assessed. At a broad level the Gadiformes and
Clupeiformes occupy disproportionate taxonomic representation in the
catch compared to overall species occurrence (Figure~\ref{fig:taxo:threepanel}, panels a and
b). Taxonomic biases at this level may reflect behavioural tendencies
of the over-represented species in the catch to form large aggregated
populations in temperate regions that are readily accessible to
fishing. Consumer preferences may also be an important determinant of
what taxonomic groups are more likely to be caught.  The
over-representation of the Gadiformes and, to a lesser degree, the
Clupeiformes, continues when caught and assessed taxa are compared
(Figure~\ref{fig:taxo:threepanel}, panels b and c). 

Historical economic importance as well as
the geographic distribution of the taxa in relation to mandated
assessments may play important roles in determining what fished taxa
are assessed.  Even in developed countries, however, not all stocks
are assessed. For example, in 2007, of the 528 fish and invertebrate
stocks recognized by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS),
only 179, or slightly over one-third, were fully assessed \citep{NMFS:2008:status}. An assessment by the European
Environment Agency (EEA) in 2006 indicated that the percentage of
commercial landings obtained from assessed stocks ranged between 66-97
percent in northern European waters and 30-77 percent in the
Mediterranean \citep{eea:2009:status}. The New Zealand
Ministry of Fisheries reports the status of 117 stocks or sub-stocks
out of a total of 628 stocks managed under New Zealand's Quota
Management System \citep{NZMF:2009}. In
Australia, 98 federally managed stocks have been assessed
\citep{Wilson:etal:2009:status} out of an unknown total. The extent to
which stocks are assessed elsewhere in the world is currently unknown.

\subsubsection*{Temporal bias}
Most of the assessments in the RAM Legacy database contain time series
of 30 years or less whereas industrial fishing began long before this.
Dominant age-structured assessment methodologies typically rely on
catch-at-age data, which are often available for considerably shorter
periods of time than total catch unless significant reconstruction
efforts are made.  Such historical reconstructions of catch-at-age
data are highly uncertain and in many cases the ``base case'' models
used for management are based only on more reliable recent catch data.
For assessments used in a tactical sense and for short-term
projection, e.g., to understand whether a particular quota level will
result in an increase or decrease in stock size, using only reliable
recent catch data may be preferable.  This is particularly true for
backward projection methods (e.g., VPA), which may converge on
parameter estimates within the more reliable recent period and
potentially benefit little from reaching further back in time.
Nevertheless, a focus on only the recent history of a fishery can be
seriously misleading for strategic decisions about goals and BRPs.
Put simply, if we do not know what's historically possible (in terms of
stock size), it's hard to know where we should set our goals.  This
``shifting baseline'' problem has been widely recognized
\citep{Pauly:1995:tree, SaenzArroyo:etal::2005:procB}, but is still apparent in the
relatively short time series of most assessments.

%.)  -what are the
%implications of this? Shifting baselines..(recent Callum Roberts 2010
%North Sea Nature paper; Jennings and Blanchard 2004 paper)

\subsubsection*{Future applications of the RAM Legacy database}
We anticipate that this new database will be of utility for fisheries
scientists, ecologists, and marine conservation biologists interested
in conducting comparative analyses of global fisheries status,
collapse and recovery patterns, fisheries productivity or marine
population dynamics. In addition to the initial aim of providing
reliable access to time series information about stocks, we hope to
also stimulate research in the relationships of life-history
characteristics and their relation to exploitation. The RAM Legacy
database contains the corresponding species codes to the Sea Around Us
Project and FishBase, thus facilitating researchers' use of a global
fisheries data ``toolkit'' to address questions on the relationships
between life history attributes and resulting population dynamics in
an exploited setting.

\subsubsection*{Caveats and limitations}

Stock assessment outputs (e.g. biomass time series), which comprise the
majority of the new RAM Legacy database are model estimates, not raw
data. The uncertainty associated with these estimates should be
carried forth in subsequent analyses. Although the database structure
allows for inclusion of estimates of uncertainty (standard errors,
95\% credible/confidence intervals), because these estimates were
typically missing from assessments, either because they weren't
produced by the assessment model (e.g. non-bootstrapped VPA
assessments) or the focus of the assessment document was on central
tendency (e.g. mean biomass) not the associated uncertainty, they have
not been included in this first version of the database. Note that
this view of assessment uncertainty is changing with the advent of
MCMC approaches to Bayesian inference for assessments, bootstrap
methods, statistical catch-at-age models \citep{admb} and a
general focus on uncertainty \citep{Walters:Maguire:1996:reviews}. As with any
analysis, clearer inference on the strength of a signal is available
when all uncertainty in the data is carried forth. This represents a
difficulty for synthetic analyses of fisheries data in that in an
ideal world one would access the raw data for each stock and carry
forth the uncertainty at all levels of the analysis. In the case of
assessments, the raw data is typically catch-at-age matrices and
potentially survey indices. To understand the fleet characteristics
and survey stratification schema for each stock in a potentially
global meta-analysis would be extremely time consuming and
error-prone. Instead, the expert opinion of those researchers most
familiar with the data, stock assessment authors, is used, while
recognizing that without accompanying uncertainty estimates the
strength of conclusions drawn may be weakened.  

While the database provides detailed trends for individual stocks, it
will never have the geographic and taxonomic coverage provided by
catch statistics. Assessment results will also never replace the
essential role played by fisheries-independent scientific surveys in
determining abundance, biomass and diversity trends in marine living
resources. 

BRPs derived from surplus production models are to be interpreted with
great care. For stocks where both were available we found that
Schaefer-derived $B_{msy}$ were systematically higher than those
obtained from assessments. This stems from the fact that under the
Schaefer surplus production model, MSY occurs at 50\% of the carrying
capacity whereas in most age-based assessment models, yield is
maximised at a lower fraction of the carrying capacity.

% tuck this in as 2nd or 3rd paragraph
%BRPs derived from surplus production models are to be
%interpreted with great care. For stocks where both were avaialble, we
%compared the values of assessment BRPs and Schaefer-derived BRPs
%(Figure S2) and found correlations of XX\% between $B_{msy}$ BRPs and
%XX\% between $U_{msy}$ BRPs.

% which results in systematic differences between the Schaefer
% $B_{msy}$ and a $B_{msy}$ coming from an assessment.

The original database developed by Ransom A. Myers was used to address
a variety of ecological questions derived from stock-recruit
relationships. This was possible because the VPA-type assessment
models that comprised most of that database generated time series of
stock and recruitment with relatively few a priori assumptions.
Forward projection methods generally specify the form of the
stock-recruit relationship, and in many cases even fix parameters
(infinitely dense point prior) such as steepness.  Stock-recruitment
``data'' from such models, are clearly inappropriate for
straightforward meta-analysis. In general, as more assessments
incorporate some type of prior information from other stocks or
species \citep{Hilborn:Liermann:1998:reviews}, there is less
stock-specific information available for future meta-analysis
\citep{Minte-Vera:etal:2005:cjfas}.  One solution is for stock
assessments to report not only best estimates of parameters based on
all available data, but also stock-specific parameter estimates that
do not incorporate prior information from other stocks or species.

% To best handle the complexities of available information available to stock assessors, 

% explicit link between state-space models and meta-analysis 

%  Similarly, state-space models which are increasingly used for assessment represent a
%significant advance over observation error models.  Yet, variability
%in state-space model outputs such as biomass time series often
%reflects assumptions about the relative contributions of process and
%observation error.


%More generally, meta-analysis may become the victim of its own success, in that a

% make this flow better


\subsubsection*{Future development}

New stocks will continue to be added to the RAM Legacy database,
particularly freshwater and anadramous populations (the
\emph{Salmonidae} comprised 45\% of the stocks in the original Myers
Stock Recruitment Database), and updated assessments for already
included stocks. Future versions of the database will also include
timelines of management actions per stock, as well as age-varying and
length-varying data such as maturity ogives and age-disaggregated
natural mortality. Depending on availability, subsequent releases of
the database could also include estimates of assessment uncertainty.
Future database products will include management-agency-level reports
containing summaries of all stocks within their remit.  The
development of a standard for assessment reporting at the management
agency level would greatly assist in the acquisition of new
assessments, and hence to ensure that the database remains current.
For example, ICES assessments have a very regular standard, including
agreed-upon reference points and regular estimate reporting. This
makes the process of data collation much more routine than
unstandardized documents where the recorder trawls through a report
for the relevant information. ICES also has a central database of
assessments for stocks of the region. Certainly different stocks and
regions require different formats but basic output tables, consisting
of total and spawning biomass, recruitment, catch/landings, estimated
fishing mortality over vulnerable age groups, associated measures of
uncertainty, and commonly-used reference points would streamline the
process immensely. A process whereby the assessment spreadsheets are
filled out at each assessment meeting would facilitate the process
even further and be the least error prone method. In return, the
assessment scientists can access results for a global collation of
assessments to further their own research initiatives in population
assessment and management. The ultimate goal is to provide a
comprehensive stock assessment database for researchers to use results
from multiple regions to assist in their own applied and fundamental
research in population ecology, fisheries science, and conservation
biology.

